Data Blending - technique to combine the data sources
with different data fromats e.g. RDBMS, Excel, JSON,
Text etc.

Data Blending uses two types of data sources - 
1. Primary
2. Secondary

Data Source selected to start the blending process is
considered as Primary and all other data sources are 
considered Secondary.

In every blending, there is only one Primary data 
source. But there can be multiple secondary.

Primary data source - Blue color
Secondary data source - Orange color

1) Create treemap of states & sales fields.

Sales treemap by State(Blending)

2) Create horizontal bar chart using Product
field & Inventory field. Add average line here.
Fill area above the line.

Inventory by Product (Average line & Blending)

3) Create pie chart using Market Field & Profit Field.
Show % on pie chart.
Profit % by Market(Blending)

4) Create discrete monthlty line chart using Date 
field & COGS. Show min/max lables. Add two filters - 
Market Size & Type

5) Create discrete monthly dual combo using sales vs Budget
 sales. Add two filters - Product Type & Market here.

6) Create box plot usign fields - State & Profit. Add
two filters - Product (Single value list) & Date Year (Slider)



 While Dashboard Making If Our Primary Key Are Not Same Then Actions CANT be initiated (Source ,Target)

7) Create Pie chart using Market & Sales.(Select location as primary)

8) Create solid map of States & Sales (Select Location as primary)

Using these two charts, create dashboard.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Advanced Charts using Tableau
1) Sparkline :
   Sparkline Are the Line Charts Having Individual Axis  Range For Each Line 

How to convert line charts to Sparkline?
Change Y axis setting to Individual axis range.
Hide Y axis For all lines.

2) Monthly Sales by Region Sparklines
Add filters - Segment & Category
3) Monthly Profit by Sub-Category Sparklines
Add filters - Order Priority & Market
4) Monthly Profit by Region Sparklines
Add filters - Category & Ship Mode


2) Word Cloud

Done using Dimension & Measure. Dimension values are
displayed as individual words & their sizes depend on
measure value.
a) put the dimension on Text button & Convert from Automatic to 
to Text.
b) put the measure on Size button and adjust font size.
c) finally put the dimension on color button.

1) Build  word cloud of Country & Profit . Add Market t Filter.
2) Build  word cloud of State & Quantity for country India.
Apply two filters - Segment & Category
3) Build word cloud of Region & No. of orders, Add Discrete month of 
Order date to the filter.

Donut chart using combination of Pie & Circle charts

1) Create a dummy field with Avg(0) in rows. Duplicate this
field in rows. 
2) Select AVG(0) first & change it from automatic to Pie.
3) Select AVG(0) Second & change it from automatic to Circle.
4) Make chart entire view
5) Select First AVG in Marks card. Drag The Dimension ON color button.
6) Here drag the measure on Angle button & Label button.
7) Increase the size of pie chart in First AVG.
8) Select second AVG on Marks card and change circle color to White.
9) Go to Rows and select second AVG options. Select "Dual Axis option.
10) Hide both Y axis. 
11) Go to Marks card for first & second AVG & adjust pie & circle size.

1) Profit by Market Donut Chart
Add Segment & Order Date year filter.

2) Quantity by Order Priority Donut chart.
Add Sub-category filter.

Motion Chart(type of animated line chart)
1) Drag date field to Pages above filter.
2) Match date type on Pages to that in date in column,
3) Change marks card from automatic to circle.
4) Click on Show History option
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Story - Stories are created based on important
demensions or measeures in the business. e.g. Country, Department,Product,
Profit,Cost etc.
It is simillar to PowerPoint in MS Office. Stories are used by top management
during client meetings for business Promotions.

A story is created by adding story points similar to slides in a PPT.

Create a story based on Product demension
1) Create bar chart of top 10 products by final sales amount.
2) Create tree map of product name & units in stock.
3) Create pie chart using Discontined field & no. of products.
4) Create bubble chart of top 10 products by reorder level.
5) Create discrete montly lin chart using order date & no. of
products & show min/max values.
